Request went through, things are cool.
But you also don't actually
see any of the request body,
we don't see that giant JSON object of
people that we eventually want to parse.
So you need to do a couple
additional things.
So underneath our print line here,
we're going to use another
library called ioutil.
So ioutil, the method we want
off of this guy is read all
And read all is going to take an argument
and the thing we want to actually be,
the thing we want help
parsing is our response.body.
So we can say response.Body.
On the left-hand side here,
before we get too far,
just make sure at the top of your file,
you are importing ioutil.
And that is from the Oops,
io/ioutil package.
So kind of demonstrate here.
Even though we're importing io/ioutil,
the only part of this we need to access
is that part of the right hand side.
So we've only been using HTTP and
now we only need to use ioutil.
So that last part of the path
on the right-hand side is
giving you access to the whole library.
Let's go back down to this guy, and
we want to call ioutil.ReadAll
on the response.Body.
And so this function is going
to hand us back a couple things.
Let me see this, okay,
it's gonna hand us back data.
And potentially an error.
And so once again, first thing we're
gonna do is check for that error.
If error does not equal nil, We're
gonna send it up to HTTP which
takes our three arguments.
Print something for our human eyes to
read, failed to parse request body.
And if everything goes well,
let's print line again and
just see what we're working with.
What is data?
I'm gonna kill my server and restart it.
Refresh.
Cool.
So assume you get a huge array of numbers
and if you recall from earlier examples,
like when we were iterating
over letters in a sentence.
We need to do an additional step
to kind of parse this information
into the actual format
we want to use it in.
So what we're looking at
here is a set of bytes.
So I'm actually gonna modify this variable
here to be a little bit more accurate.
So we're talking about bytes.
So instead of just printing it,
we need to parse it.
So here is where we're going to
start using the JSON library.
And so at the top of the file,
you can import Encoding/JSON,
And back down to where
we get our bytes back.
We're gonna say JSON.unmarshal, and
unmarshal takes a couple things.
So JSON.unmarshal is going
to parse encoded data,
and then store the result in
a variable that we tell it to.
So similar to like JSON.stringify or
JSON.parse, we are taking information
that isn't in a format we want.
And then using the JSON library
to get it to a place and
in a format that we can use.
So the unmarshal takes two things.
It's gonna take what we're trying to
parse, which is that big array of bytes.
And then some variable
where we want to put it.
And we haven't defined this variable yet,
but
because we're gonna be modifying it
permanently, we're gonna use the at,
sorry, ampersand and send it to our
variable people which we have not defined.
So what are we trying to unmarshal and
give me the memory address,
where you want me to
store this information.
So we can just stick this variable here so
it's easy to see.
We'll say we're gonna initialize a var,
people.
And then we're gonna create a people
struct, which doesn't exist yet.
So let's scroll up a bit and
get out of this function and
define our people struct.
So we have type people, which is a struct.
And people is going to
have a People attribute.
And it's going to be assigned
to a collection of person types.
For clarity,
I'm gonna do a quick modification,
instead of calling the struct type people,
I'm gonna change this to be all people,
just so we're not talking about
the same word in various ways.
Which means that I also need
to scroll back down and
modify that my variable people is
actually assigned to a type of AllPeople.
We're gonna be throwing this word a lot,
let's produce some confusion.
Okay, so let's create our person struct.
Type person.
We're gonna have person defined
with a couple attributes.
And if we flip back over to the API,
the attributes I want to pull off
of this JSON object are the name and
the homeworld URL.
We're gonna need to make a second request
to actually get that information.
But for now, we know we want the name,
the homeworld URL and then eventually,
we're going to want whatever
this homeworld URL and
point returns which we'll
look at in just a second.
So back in the code.
Person will take a capital
N name which is a string,
a Homeworld URL which is a string,
and then eventually an actual Homeworld,
which is going to be defined by
the planet struct we haven't defined yet.
So next steps.
Let's add one more struct here.
We're just gonna be type planet.
And you'll notice that so
we don't have any attributes in planet.
Let's go check out the API and see what
we get back from a planet request.
So let's grab this one.
So we've got the base URL/planets/an ID.
So up here in our little sandbox,
we can do /planets/1 just to kinda
see what we're working with.
So on a planet, we have additional
information name, rotation, period,
climate, etc.
And a bunch of residents
that live on that planet.
So let's just grab a couple.
Let's do like name, which is a string,
terrain, which is a string, and
population which is also a string.
So we'll hop back over to our code.
And on planet, we want name
which is a string, population,
which is a string and
terrain which is a string.
And once again, all of these because they
are being potentially exported to use
elsewhere, we need comments.
Cool.
So
now we have three different structs which
are kind of nested and related to each
other in different ways which means we can
start adding some data to our variable.
We'll scroll back down to our function.
So now that we've defined all of
the different shapes of all people,
we can tell our JSON.unmarshal function
that once it receives the bytes,
parse them and throw them on to Allpeople.
So for now, let's just print out People.
All right, cool.
So we have on line 57, we're calling
JSON.unmarshal and parsing it a series of
bytes and then saving whatever gets
parsed to our people variable.
Using the ampersand indicates an address.
Let's throw a error handling,
additional error handling right after
this guy in case anything goes wrong.
So I'm going to set another err
equal to our JSON.umarshal.
You'll notice if I hit save that
we've already established that this
guy is called err.
And then we have some error handling.
And so we haven't been taking advantage
of the structure where we can
wrap the functionality in the if
block to scope that err, so
that we top getting error that.
So I'm gonna do that real quick here.
So instead of defining
the error immediately,
I'm gonna say if and then we're going to
set the variable err to our
JSON.unmarshal semi colon.
And then if it does not equal nil,
We are going to, oops, print error.
We're going to print
line error parsing JSON.
And then display the err.
So by wrapping our err in our if block,
which we probably should have done from
the first get go up here, we can avoid
that duplicate variable declaration error.
Okay, so notice that if we actually run
the print line function here we were
getting that empty object.
So I'm gonna wrap The JSON in a string.
Just getting up on line 55 we want to
print line not just the bytes, but
like what is the string version of
all these bytes giving us back.
Similar to when we were talking
about iterating over each letter.
Start on the server.
Refresh here and you'll see in our
response, we're getting some actual text
back so this is helpful we can kinda see
what our API response is giving us back.
If we scroll to the top, You'll notice
that our actual array of data is
kinda nested deeply within here, but we're
seeing that we have a key of results.
And then it's an array of JSON objects
that have our person information attached.
So if we go up to where we're storing
our information on this Allpeople
struct We're telling it to look for
some sort of key called People,
which does not exist on our JSON object.
And this is where we can use something
called a JSON Flag to kind of bridge that
gap between what our JSON is giving us and
what we wanna call it in the Go syntax.
So to do that, we're gonna use backticks
to the right hand side of the strut
attribute.
And in our JSON block, so
we're talking about JSON not XML.
We are actually looking for the results.
And the results is going to be
an array of person and objects.
But similarly if we go up to person,
we're saying we want JSON to go find Name,
Homeworld URL and Homeworld,
these things don't exist either.
So let's go ahead and
modify all of our struct attributes to
match what exists on our JSON object.
So here we have JSON:"name", lowercase n.
And our HomeworldURL is json:"homeworld".
Our Homeworld that's set to a Planet
can stay the way it is because we're
defining that on its own right above here.
But we do need to hop into here and
make sure that these are going
to be mapped correctly too.
So these guys, we're going to
have JSON set to lowercase name,
Lowercase population And
lowercase terrain.
Now that we've mapped kind of what our
ghosts and texts look like to what our
JSON object will give us back,
go ahead and save this guy.
Restart our server.
Refresh my browser and
you'll see we're getting
a list of people with
the information we kinda expect.